How do people learn about underlying physical parameters, such as mass
and friction, from the interactions of objects in complex, dynamical
scenes?  Discovering the values of such properties is a difficult
task: the parameters cannot be observed directly, and their influence
on the sequence of dynamics is often complicated and difficult to
resolve unambiguously. Yet, people can do this. We showed participants
towers of blocks stacked in complex configurations, and asked them to
predict whether each tower would fall. After giving them the correct
answer, we asked a further question: which blocks were heavier?  With
the correct information about stability, participants rapidly learned
the blocks' relative masses. We propose that this learning can be
viewed as probabilistic inference in a generative model that
approximates Newtonian rigid-body dynamics. To express this
hypothesis, we built a model that uses physical simulation and Monte
Carlo sampling to predict what will happen and then to update its
beliefs based on the divergence of its predictions from
reality. Participants' judgments were qualitatively consistent with
those of this physics-aware model observer, but also deviated in key
ways that may be explained by information and resource
limitations. This is an important step in understanding how people
perceive and reason about the physical nature of their environment,
and provides a working framework for modeling and testing people's
inferences about unobserved properties in complex, real-world scenes.
